# gama
Genetic Approach to Maximize Average (Silhouette Width)

Big data's analysis tasks require expensive processing, storage, and memory resources. In this context, it is common to use low-cost machines to form powerful clusters. A popular and viable strategy is to employ cloud computing virtualization services. Among the main benefits are the elasticity of resources, growth on demand and monetarization by time slice. However, the computational system configuration directly influences the performance of the task and the financial cost of using the cluster. The latter becomes exceptionally large in sophisticated problems, such as supervised learning, clustering, collaborative filtering, dimensionality reduction, among others. Knowing the task consumption pattern becomes imperative for the appropriate choice of computational power to be employed. This paper presents a hybrid approach based on unsupervised learning and evolutionary computation to group algorithms by the level of its CPU load on the computational system. We collected metrics of eleven Distributed Machine Learning (DML) algorithms to categorize them into common consumption partitions, here called execution signatures. We investigated several scenarios of genetic operators for selection, crossover, and mutation to find the best combination to maximize an objective function based on the average silhouette of the partitions. From both quantitative and qualitative points of view, we observed superior results against well-adopted techniques such as k-means, DBSCAN; and a new clustering method, the NK Hybrid Genetic Algorithm for clustering.
